And again, we develop this bodhichitta, as we said, and then there is an honor. First is wishing
bodhichitta and that is more of a practical level, how we kind of develop this bodhichitta.
First, we wishing bodhichitta. That means, first bodhichitta is not coming from outside because it
has to develop from our heart, from our mind, mind, from our intention.
And so starting, kind of, first sizzling into your one's own heart. I like to help other beings. I
like to benefit to other beings. I like to do kindness activities to others.
Kind of something that really sizzling and activating in one's own mind, very genuine, very
beautifully developing.
And I like to also practice and remove my obstacles in order to benefit to all beings. Kind of
think, what do you call this, think locally, act globally. That's it.
So now, first I'm going to remove my obstacles, in order to do that, I'm going to meditate. I'm
going to practice and do these things. And that will really help me so that I can help to the
others.
Trying to well accommodate ourselves for that. This is not that sincerely attitude thought. And
that is known as the wishing bodhichitta and the intention bodhichitta.
So once we have that thought, then we begin to activate bodhichitta.
This wishing bodhichitta, again, of course, the reason you already know, I mean, it's not something
that, no doubt.
This wishing bodhichitta, I like to help other beings. It's very, very important. I mean, you know,
all the beings of sentient beings, or the sentient beings, or all the other beings, everyone is
struggling.
Everyone is struggling their own status, own space. In the ancient time, it said kings are
struggling on the throne, or kings are struggling on the kingdom.
Ministers are struggling in the ministers' positions. Four purposes are struggling in the four
states, and the rich purpose is struggling in the rich states, and the beggars are struggling in
the beggar states.
That is just a kind of work. Then each other, everyone has some trouble. Something, even they look
like so good, still there's something really going on, on and the difficulties.
This, everyone has trouble. This is just human levels. And then all the different realms in
thinking, there's so many difficulties, troubles.
Then we all have the majority that inevitably, inevitably there is four difficulties, and those are
known as the birth, getting old, the sicknesses, and the death.
And those are all difficult transitions. Even maybe birth, we kind of celebrate, celebrate, but
birth is big transitions. Both mother level, and as well as child, the new baby level, it is big
challenges.
And once after that kind of transition passed, then next is getting old, and the sickness, and the
death.
And that, I mean, each level we start thinking of these three, getting old, and the sickness, and
the death, is a tremendous burden, tremendous challenge, and difficult for each individual.
And then as well as those who are connected. It's so much. Those are just the majority, that
baggage comes. But then beside that, I said, kids struggling in the capital, and everyone, I mean,
every level, there's rich people suffering in the rich places, poor people suffering in the poor
places.
Everyone, because there is so many unsatisfied things, always happen. And this is due to the
ignorance, attachment, anger, all self-important, and that's all happening.
So therefore, this bodhicitta, again, that level is so important to helping to all beings. To kind
of think of every living beings, I'm going to help, think, kind of sincerely thinking, that is
known as wishing bodhicitta.
And in order to do that, I think many of you know this, but also, bodhicitta, if you would like to
do pray, that bodhicitta, pray itself, wishing bodhicitta is the essence of that wishing bodhicitta
is known as this one.
This yellow Bhagat has that. For example, may all beings have the happiness and cause of happiness.
This is known as the prayer of the bond of love, love and kindness.
And then may all, may they be free from suffering and cause of sufferings. This is boneless,
compassionate prayers. And then may there never be this aspect from the supreme happiness which is
without sufferings.
This is then rejoice and joy, practice. Joy, joy, this can be translated, rejoice, joy, graceful,
and gratitude, gratitude, that prayers.
And then may they remain in the boneless equanimity, free from both attachment to the close ones
and rejection of others. This is the prayer of boneless equanimity, all living beings.
So this is, again, this alone is so special practices, so special practices, prayers. Like when you
have time and that you can really chime these prayers and reflect this meaning sincerely in the
heart and the waking, what you chime to, it is special power.
There's so many stories. I'm not going to talk and maybe you already know that. But one good, even
a small benefit of thought brought so many results, so many benefits, many levels, external level,
internal level. There's so many stories.
So that merely, if we shouldn't think, merely praise what that will talk. But when we know our
powerful mind, when activated and kind of like when we release that energy to this space of dharmad
atta or the nature, it goes far beyond than we can imagine by the conceptions.
It really does. It's a very, so many days stories and so many beautiful results that mentioned in
the Buddha's teaching as well as teachings of other greatest masters.
So therefore, wishing this prayer sincerely to the others and thinking with all beings is so
special. And this is the essence of the wishing bodhic, the prayers.
And then again, when we do this, once we develop the wishing bodhic cata, then second is known as
then actualizing bodhic cata or engaging bodhic cata.
And actualizing, engaging bodhic cata is then as you have the intention taught sincerely, now that
intention is begin to reflect by verbally or by physically, physically and begin to reflect.
And how going to reflect that and then reflected through the conflicts of the six parametas or amya
six parametas and reflecting the bodhic cata activity from the generalist practices.
And then reflecting the bodhic cata from the moralities, the conduct levels and then reflecting the
bodhic cata through the patient or the tolerance, tolerance level, patient, tolerance levels.
And then reflecting the bodhic cata all the time with joyful efforts and reflecting the bodhic cata
through the concentration meditations.
Reflecting the bodhic cata through then western power, transcendental practice.
So reflecting the bodhic cata with those according your capabilities.
And this is again capabilities. This is something to do with, for example, generosity practices.
Generosity practices when you are reflecting bodhic cata, when you do generosity practices, we
should follow according our capabilities, according our range that what we can do.
We don't have to go far beyond the capabilities. Maybe once in a while you maybe can do, but
shouldn't do too many times.
We have the long last goal, the goal that going to get ourselves enlightenment benefited for all
beings.
(upbeat music)